In this concept, you'll be introduced to services
within AWS that are based on servers or instances.
These services basically consist of
individual servers that have software installed by AWS for you,
and are managed by AWS.
Having AWS run these servers as a service,
removes a lot of the configuration and optimization work from your plate.
Further, AWS can use their knowledge of
their internal infrastructure to create
the optimal environment for the service to run it.
AWS has entire teams of experts operating these software applications,
which allows you to spend your effort consuming these applications,
not developing or maintaining them.
How do we spot a server-based service?
Does a service run in your VPC?
Are you configuring a group of subnets for the service to use?
These are good signs the service is server-based.
Are you providing a security group for the service?
Security groups belong to a VPC,
and get placed on service instances.
If you're choosing an instance type of instance family,
very likely that this service is instance-based.
Is the service an AWS managed service for a preexisting application?
Think, MySQL, Redis, Elasticsearch,
these are all applications that you could run anywhere.
AWS simply serves these applications for you.
These services run generally the same versions of software you can get elsewhere.
They're just being deployed to servers that AWS is managing for you.
Some examples of server-based services in AWS,
ElastiCache, a managed caching service,
Elasticsearch, which is managed Elasticsearch, Document DB,
AWS's managed MongoDB, and Elastic MapReduce,
AWS's managed big data service.
You might think these are just MySQL servers,
why do I need to pay AWS to run them?
Two important points here.
One, AWS has teams of people who are
experts in each one of these services. You likely do not.
Two, RDS costs about the same as renting
the equivalent size EC2 instance and running the database yourself.
But running a database yourself
entails all the overhead of system planning and maintenance.
RDS takes care of all of that for you.
These services provide a lot of value for slight,
if any additional cost.